Chair Paul Condrin, members of the Bentley Board of Trustees and trustees emeriti; former presidents Morone and Larson; Dr. Michael Lomax (in absentia) and Mr. Agai Jones in his stead, Dr. Debora Spar and Dr. B. Joseph White; members of my family and in particular, my lovely wife Phyllis, and our kids, Elrie, Adriana and Jordan; esteemed delegates; faculty, staff, students and alumni; friends and frat brothers from across the country ... Thank you for joining us on this very special occasion.

Phyllis and I are deeply moved by the outpouring of support, goodwill and generosity expressed here this afternoon, and we are honored that you all have come here today to fellowship and celebrate with us.

My first 10 months at Bentley University have been incredible — and incredibly busy.

When I arrived last June, priority number one was ensuring a safe and successful, fully operational 2021-22 academic year for our students, faculty and staff. I stand here today delighted to be in this space, together, with each of you on this occasion.

The past 10 months have also been defined by incredible transition and growth. From working with my executive leadership team, along with hundreds of members of this community, on an ambitious strategic positioning effort that will define this institution’s next chapter, to getting to know our amazing students, who inspire me daily.

I’ve also valued getting to know our faculty and staff and my new bosses, many of whom sit behind me today, and to begin to understand the cadence and rhythms of a new organization.

Throughout this period, Phyllis and I have loved exploring the beauty and history of Waltham and Boston, a corner of the country that was foreign to both of us prior to our arrival. We’re learning to appreciate many of New England’s rich traditions, and we’ve witnessed firsthand the majesty of its vistas and coastal landscapes. We’ve also come to understand some of the rather unusual regional idiosyncrasies that come with the territory. Many of those “lessons learned” are stories I’ll save for another time.

These first 10 months have been incredible. But they have not been without their challenges.

The highs Phyllis and I have experienced in joining this community have been tempered by enduring reminders of the cumulative, persistent and yet to be fully recognized consequences of a devastating two-year period. I have been especially sensitive to the shockingly disproportionate impact that COVID-19 has had on marginalized communities, especially communities of color. Beyond the immediate health consequences, there is irrefutable evidence of the inability of these communities to withstand the harsh blows of the pandemic’s economic fallout. This has been difficult to witness.

The pandemic also highlighted some of the fragility of this country’s overall well-being, evidenced by near-historic tumult, and calling into question some of our most cherished norms and institutions. Over the past two years, we’ve had to navigate grievance, intolerance, racial violence, de-platforming, white nationalism and near-nihilistic political upheaval. I also acknowledge the impact all of this has had on the psycho-social well-being of our students — and of young people in particular — across the country.

These conditions have converged to greatly impact the landscape in which I assumed this presidency — of a community that is in many ways a microcosm of our country.

And so, in this sense, I began my presidency at Bentley with the need to reconcile my excitement, joy, optimism and gratitude amidst powerful reminders of the incomplete nature of the American project — of the great distance between the realities of life and death in the United States and of our need to bridge the chasm between this nation’s highest ideas and the reality for so many members of our community.

Despite that, I remain buoyed by the American promise and by the unequivocal role that Bentley and other colleges and universities can and must assume in shaping the next generation of leaders and in strengthening our nation’s foundational cornerstones of fairness and opportunity.


